# Pharmacy Management System
Introduction: The main aim of the project is the management of the database of the pharmaceutical shop. This project is insight into the design and implementation of a Pharmacy Management System. This is done by creating a database of the available medicines in the shop. The primary aim of pharmacy management system is to improve accuracy and enhance safety and efficiency in the pharmaceutical store. The aim of this project is to develop software for the effective management of a pharmaceutical store. We have developed this software for ensuring effective policing by providing statistics of the drugs in stock. The database is then connected to the main program by using interconnection of the Visual Basic program and the database already created. Pharmacy management system is useful to maintain correct database by providing an option to update the drugs in stock. This is pharmacy management system; it is used to manage most pharmacy related activities in the pharmacy. Pharmacy management system is a management system that is designed to improve accuracy and to enhance safety and efficiency in the pharmaceutical store. This program can be used in any pharmaceutical shops having a database to maintain. It is a computer based system which helps the Pharmacist to improve inventory management, cost, medical safety etc. The software used can generate reports, as per the user’s requirements. Using this pharmacy management system user is also able to generate report within a specified period of time. The system allows the user to enter a manufacturing and expiry date for a particular product or drug during opening stock and sales transaction. The software can print invoices, bills, receipts etc. It can also maintain the record of supplies sent in by the supplier. The system will also give report showing the list of products expiry after a specified date before the product eventually expires. The system services and goals are established by consultation with system user. It also involves manual entry upon arrival of new batches of drugs and upon drug movement out of the pharmacy for a certain period. Pharmacy management system is being build. Pharmacy management system is robust, integrated technology. Every month, the pharmacist may want to generate report
for the movement of drugs in and out of the pharmacy, getting information about the drugs e.g. expiry date, date purchased, number of drug type left, and location of a drug in the pharmacy. Pharmacy management system deals with the maintenance of drugs and consumables in the pharmacy unit. This pharmacy management system is user friendly.
Objective
 The main objective of this project is online process of pharmacy management system.
 The customer query processing into that application in medical field.
 The doctor prescription to that application in data processing.
Abstract
The project mainly focused on online processing into customer in that application.Intialy customer register to the details, then will login to the account details in that application. The pharmacy owner symptoms details provide in that application. After the process of customer view to the prescription details then will pay the amount in online banking application. The doctor prescription also providing the customer needs symptom query of proceeds. After applying to online banking and cash on delivery process in that application. The admin process to the customer and pharmacy owner details viewed. The finally admin login to the account details in all the customer and pharmacy owner view the details. The admin processing in to checking in that application. This system is also helpful to improve the efficiency of the system by ensuring effective monitoring of services and activities. A summarized list of drugs dispensed to patient can be viewed for monitoring purposes. The pharmacy management system is built for the sake of ensuring effective and clear data saving and manipulating as well as neat work on the pharmacy medical products.
EXITING SYSTEM At present, manual system is being utilized in the pharmacy. It requires the pharmacist to manually monitor each drug that is available in the pharmacy. Pharmacy management has kept paper record in filing cabinets. Managing a very large pharmacy with records on papers will be tedious and difficult to keep track of inventories with regards to the drugs in the store, expiry date, quantity of drugs available based on the categories and their functions. This implies that these services will be manually completed by the pharmacist. This usually leads to mistakes as the workload of the pharmacist increases. This system also ensures that there exists a level of restricted access based on functionality and role. This system also provides optimal drug inventory management by monitoring the drug movement in the pharmacy. Significant amount of time is allocated for writing the order as the pharmacist needs to go through the stock balance and make rough estimate of the amount to order based on Figures. The system will not be able to handle drug prescription, drug to drug interaction. The pharmacist has to order drugs to replenish the already diminishing stock. In addition, ordering of drugs is being carried out manually. Drugs are not supposed to be used after they have expired.
Disadvantage  The pharmacist has to order drugs to replenish the already diminishing stock. In addition, ordering of drugs is being carried out manually.  Drugs are not supposed to be used after they have expired. The set-up of this pharmacy management system will ensure availability of sufficient quantity of drugs and consumable materials for the patient.  This project work will prompt the pharmacist about drugs that are close to expiry, preventing those drugs from being sold and also providing solution to the earlier stated problems.  Pharmacy management system helps in storing the daily transactions of medicines
Proposed System
This project proposed system is customer process to online pharmacy application. The important features of pharmacy owner prescription and doctor prescription proceed to that system. Easy to process user need symptoms detail in that system. The customer important process of profile created in pharmacy system. After the process of account login to the details in application, then will process of customer search to the symptoms details in this system. The system provides the correct prescription and perfect solution in that application. After the process of payment processing in this system. The net banking and cash on delivery to the processing in this system. All the values stored in database and also view the all details in admin process of the system.
Advantage  The growing popularity of computers and gadgets in general has in no way slowed down the birth of new innovative ways in the pharmaceutical management system.  These days, computers have become an essential part of many people’s lives due to the versatility of the devices, and how much they can do with so little effort.  Performing tasks which would have taken hours and maybe days in the past have become possible in seconds.  The invention of the Internet and other utilities such as search engines have made searching for the most remote things possible in very little time.  Also, the portability of the computer systems has helped the cause in making information more portable than it was in the past.
Software and Hardware Requirements
HARDWARE SPECIFICATION
 Main Processor : 2GHz
 Ram : 512 MB (min)
 Hard Disk : 80 GB
SOFTWARE SPECIFICATION
 Language : Java
 Web Server : Tomcat 6
 Operating System : Windows 7 32 Bit
